AWS
Q) Name 7 Core AWS Services A)
CloudFront, EC2 Elastic Compute Cloud, IAM Identity and Access Management, Lambda, RDS Relational Database Service, S3 Simple Storage Service, and VPC Virtual Private Cloud.
Q)  EC2 Elastic Compute Cloud A)  A web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers. 
Q) S3 Simple Storage Service A)  An object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. It allows you to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.
Q) RDS Relational Database Service A) A managed relational database service that supports MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and SQL Server, as well as Amazon Aurora, a high-performance managed relational database.
Q) VPC Virtual Private Cloud A)  A service that lets you launch AWS resources in a logically isolated virtual network that you define. You have complete control over your virtual networking environment.
Q)  IAM Identity and Access Management A) A web service that helps you securely control access to
AWS services and resources for your users.
Q) Lambda A)  A compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers.
Lambda executes your code only when needed and scales automatically.
Q) CloudFront A) A content delivery network CDN service that securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APis to customers globally with low latency and high transfer speeds.
Q)   Elasticity A) The ability to scale computing resources up or down easily, automatically adjusting capacity as computing requirements change.
Q) High Availability  A) The ability to keep services operational during various fault conditions and ensuring minimal service disruption or downtime.
Q) The ability to handle increasing loads by adding resources either horizontally adding more machines or vertically adding more power to existing machines.
Q) Fault Tolerance  A) The capability to continue operating even if some components of the system fail.
5. Region vs. Availability Zone  A) A Region is a geographical area that consists of two or more Availability Zones, which are isolated locations within data center regions to provide redundancy and reduce latency.
Security & Management
Q)  Security Group  A) Acts as a virtual firewall for your EC2 instances to control inbound and outbound traffic.
Q) Key Pair  A) Used in EC2 to securely connect to your instances.
Q) Route 53  A) A scalable and highly available Domain Name System DNS web service.
Q) CloudWatch  A) A monitoring service for AWS cloud resources and the applications you run on AWS.
Q) CloudTrail  A) A service that enables governance, compliance, operational auditing, and risk auditing of your AWS account.
Q) Elastic Beanstalk  A) An easyuse service for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, Nginx, Passenger, and IIS.
Q) CloudFormation  A) A service that gives developers and businesses an easy way to create a collection of related AWS and third A)party resources, provision and manage them in an orderly and predictable fashion.
Cost Management
Q) Reserved Instances  A) Provide you with a significant discount compared to On-Demand instance pricing and provide a capacity reservation when used in a specific Availability Zone.
Q) Spot Instances  A) Allow you to bid on unused EC2 capacity and run those instances for as long as your bid exceeds the current spot price. 
